# Data Modeling with Postgres

## Project Description

This project is about defining fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus and writing an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

`song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json`  
`song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json`

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

`{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}`

### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

`log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json`  
`log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json`

If you would like to look at the JSON data within log_data files, you will need to create a pandas dataframe to read the data. Remember to first import JSON and pandas libraries.

`df = pd.read_json(filepath, lines=True)`

### Project File Structure

In addition to the data files, the project workspace includes six files:  

- **test.ipynb** displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
- **create_tables.py** drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
- **etl.ipynb** reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
- **etl.py** reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
- **sql_queries.py** contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
- **README.md** provides discussion on your project.


##  Project Steps

Below are steps you can follow to complete the project:

- Create Tables
- Write CREATE statements in sql_queries.py to create each table.
- Write DROP statements in sql_queries.py to drop each table if it exists.
- Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.
- Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.
- Build ETL Processes


## Usage  

- Run `create_table.py` to create the database and tables.
- Run `etl.py` to load data.